why do you yawn
[Music]
what were goosebumps originally for
how many scents can your nose attack
well let's find it all out the heart
isn't actually on the left side it's
right in the middle of your chest
between the two lungs and slightly tilt
to the left by the time you wake up you
will have forgotten 50% of your latest
dream after 10 minutes you will not
remember 90% of it if you think your
hiccups last too long
one man couldn't stop them for 68 years
in a row when you blush not only your
cheeks turn red but also your stomach
lining
while I'm sharing this fact with you
about 50,000 cells in your body will be
renewed your hair helps the environment
because it absorbs ozone by the time you
turn 60 you will have lost almost half
of your taste buds that's why most
elderly people don't notice unusual or
bitter taste you burn calories when
you're just breathing watching TV and
here comes the best part
sleeping an adult has 206 bones half of
them in their hands and feet female hair
is twice as soft as male hair the latter
is twice as large in diameter a human
has on average 120,000 hairs on their
head natural blondes have way more than
that because it's finer and the scalp
can fit more of it you can live just
fine without your appendix stomach one
kidney or one lung Bay I work fine on
half a brain around 20% of all the
oxygen in your body goes to your brain
your saliva has the superpower of
protecting you against infections
you just don't blink to keep your eyes
moist it's like a micro nap and a way to
sharpen your attention you share 14,000
or 70% of all your genes with acorn
worms it only takes you five hundredths
of a second to recognize a sound that's
ten times faster than blinking there are
no muscles in the fingers only tendons
and bones fingers Bend thanks to joints
in the palms and in the mid forearm you
can detect around one trillion smells
that makes your sense of smell 100 times
more developed than your sense of taste
you can't see it unless you use a
super-sensitive camera but you're
actually bioluminescent your forehead
neck and cheeks are glowing the
brightest corn flakes have more genes
than you do it's 32,000 genes versus
20,000 wisdom teeth are useless they are
souvenir from your ancestors that lived
hundreds of thousands of years ago they
use them to chew on rough food like
leaves roots and meats the tongue is the
only muscle that doesn't connect the
bones on both ends it's only connected
to your neck on one side a chin is
unique to humans even our genetic
cousins gorillas and chimpanzees don't
have them your thumbs have their own
pulse because there are big arteries
inside them that's why you can't fill
your pulse in the neck with your thumb
right-handed people normally chew on the
right side and left-handers out for the
left one that makes sense most of the
air entering your nose only goes through
one nostril at a time they take turns
and switch every few hours to provide
you with nonstop service your internal
organs aren't symmetrical if someone
uncoiled the human DNA it would be
enough to build a track from the earth
to the Sun and back more than 300 times
humans have 3d vision of the world
because two eyes look at things from a
slightly different angle the brain puts
those two images together in a fraction
of a second your muscles mostly twitch
because of stress too much caffeine or a
bad diet so relax and have some fruits
and veggies to stop that your brain has
an internal thermostat that controls
your body temperature if scientists
learn to control that thermostat they
could treat various health conditions
your teeth are just as strong as shark
teeth
they're made of a softer mineral but the
coating is pretty much of the same
mineral crystals and proteins you have
the same number of vertebrae in your
neck as a giraffe seven of them their
neck bones are much longer though do you
think goosebumps used to help humans to
scare off predators the hair standing on
one end made them appear to be larger
it's virtually impossible to destroy a
human hair water cold and corrosion can
do nothing to it
the only way to go is setting it on fire
but don't do this while it's attached to
your head bad idea the left side of the
brain is in charge of the right side of
your body and the right side of the
brain controls the left side of your
body that clear
humans make up to 7,000 different facial
expressions some are universal and
others mean opposite things in different
cultures humans as well as everything
else on the planet and in the entire
universe are 97% built of atoms that are
made of the dust of exploded stars if
for some reason you placed all the
humans on earth and one cube it would be
about half a mile on one side
just imagine the miles of smiles
on average it takes seven minutes to
fall asleep there are some techniques to
speed that process to 120 seconds though
smelling green apples or bananas before
a meal is one of the ways to lose weight
their neutral scent calms down the
appetite and you won't end up overeating
humans are the only species that are
capable of drawing straight lines or
perfect circles around 1% of people can
see ultraviolet they are the people born
without a special lens in the eye that
protects the retina from UV famous
impressionist painter Claude Monet for
example belong to that 1% your bones
stop growing with puberty but your ears
and nose never do you wouldn't feel any
flavors without saliva in your mouth
food chemicals dissolve in it and only
then your taste buds can do their job at
detecting taste when you sleep in a new
place half of your brain stays awake
thanks to that you'll be able to quickly
get up if you have to protect yourself
from something or someone your hair can
detect scents its follicles have the
same receptors as your nasal passages
sandalwood can activate them and make
your hair grow faster the lining of a
human mouth is a natural self healer
that's why gums recover faster than any
other part of the skin yawning doesn't
help you stay awake it cools down your
brain to speed up you're falling asleep
when someone diets too much the brain
cells start eating themselves try to
produce energy to save the brain as a
result the person feels even more hungry
your spine has a great memory it
remembers your posture that's why it can
be hard to change it for the better
you can't breathe and swallow at once
when you're breathing the pipe leading
to your stomach closes when you swallow
the Gateway to your lungs temporarily
shuts down
your heartbeat changes and adapts to the
music you're listening to faster tempos
make it beat faster the ability to blush
is unique to humans it's turned on by an
adrenalin rush your tear glands never
stop working even when you're asleep but
because your eyelids are closed fat and
tears builds up and dries and forms
crusts you find on waking nearly twelve
percent of women have four types of cone
near the retina instead of a regular
three this gives them super vision they
can see 100 million colors and not 1
million like other people women blink
more frequently and quicker than men
it's 19 verses 11 blinks per minute as
they get older they blink even more
often women are so good at detecting
sense they can even tell when their
partner is stressed by smelling their
shirt the sound that your stomach makes
when you're hungry has a scientific name
it's called borborygmi to take just one
step you activate two hundred muscles
they work a lot because you take 10,000
steps a day on average
you can't sneeze when you're sleeping
because nerve cells in your nose that
activate sneezing are sleeping too you
can't sense smells in your sleep either
your long-term memory can store as much
information as the entire web or about
one petabyte neurons in a human brain
travel at the speed of 150 miles per
hour transmitting information their
energy would be enough to light a low
wattage bulb there are immune cells in
every tissue of the human body
they are either stable or moving around
to do their job
let's see the way your sneeze sounds
depends on your nose size the larger the
nose the bigger the sneeze because more
air can go in and out your ears are so
sensitive you can hear molecules this is
how you can tell cold water from boiling
water with your eyes closed humans are
capable of using echolocation like bats
and dolphins with some training you can
find your way in complete darkness
analyzing the surroundings by sound
bouncing off objects your eye has over 2
million working parts and 1 million
nerve fibres connected to the brain as
all the pieces work together they
process around 36,000 bits of
information per hour 10,000 years ago I
wasn't around then everyone had just one
eye color brown then the first blue-eyed
person was born as a result of a genetic
mutation
he'll never sneeze with your eyes open
you shut the eyelids automatically to
protect your eyes from all those nasty
things jumping out of your nose you
don't only have taste receptors on your
tongue but also in your stomach pancreas
and other parts of your digestive system
your lungs and brain an adult is made up
of seven octillion atoms that's 27 zeros
count them all wait okay
there are just 300 billion stars in our
galaxy for comparison your fingers get
wrinkled after a bath to give you a
better grip of things covered in water
it's like treads on car tires you
physically see your nose but the brain
chooses to ignore it otherwise it would
stand in the way of your vision plus it
would be out of focus anyways the
average person has four dreams per night
or 4460 dreams a year
all the strangers from your dreams are
actually real people you've met at some
point in real life you just didn't
remember them human sweat doesn't smell
bad the bacteria that breed on it are to
blame pyew most people have 24 ribs in
12 pairs about 1 in 20 people though
have an extra rib or a couple of those
they can be on either or both sides
between the base of the neck and the
collarbone
unlike other cells neurons can't replace
themselves a human brain is 80% water
and it needs water to work smoothly so
drink enough of it every day the only
part of your body they can't repair
itself is your tooth even your brain can
replace some of its parts with scar
tissue your stomach can hold half a
pound of food at a time unless you're a
competitive eater
then look out stomach here it comes no
matter how hard you try you can't tickle
yourself when you try to do it your
brain knows about it before you touch
your sides and prepares for it now the
exact number is different from person to
person but your heart makes an average
of 100,000 beats a day when your lungs
are healthy they are pink if they're
turning black hue must definitely change
your lifestyle around 12% of people
can't dream in color there used to be
more of them before color TV was
invented your stomach acid is strong
enough to dissolve a razorblade don't
swallow it though a human body has over
600 muscles they aren't just in your
arms and legs but also in your heart to
keep it beating and in your digestive
system your strongest muscle is in your
jaw your weakest muscle is in the middle
of your ear all the food you'll most
likely eat in your lifetime is as heavy
as 12 hippos your brain will have
trouble with keeping long-term memories
over time it needs to make room for new
memories but can't just erase the old
ones your skin is home to one thousand
bacterial species at the same time it
protects the rest of your body against
bacteria human bones are five times
stronger than steel of the same width
but fragile at the same time your
fingernails grow two to three times
faster than your toenails
they grow completely new every six
months and it takes your toenails about
a year your nose is a built-in air
filter humidifier and temperature
controller when you breathe through your
mouth the air that gets into your system
is cooler and drier you can't see your
taste buds with an unaided eye the bumps
on the tongue that are visible are
papillae under the taste buds
you have about five hundred thousand
sweat glands in your feet this sweat
factory makes a pint of produce a day
the longest bone in an adult body is the
thigh ball the shortest one is found in
the ear and even a grain of rice is
longer than it guys normally have longer
ring fingers than index fingers and
girls have just the opposite
some people have unfollow phobia or the
fear of the navel in its mildest form it
scares them to touch their own belly
button others can't even look at
pictures of navels you'll spend one
third of your entire life in your sleep
around six years eating and five years
waiting in lines you have the thickest
skin on your feet and the thinnest layer
is on the eyelids every 30 days you get
a brand new top layer of skin some
people can see colors in sounds tastes
and even numbers and days of the week
Vincent van Gogh Franz Liszt Billy Joel
and Pharrell Williams are all on the
list of famous people with this
superpower you take on average 20,000
breaths per day an average human has
around 250 hairs in each of the eyebrows
they renew every four months you don't
like the sound of your own voice on
recording because it's always different
from what its sound
to you plus you don't have control over
it and that makes you uncomfortable you
blink around 12,000 times a day that
makes up four million two hundred
thousand times a year a human can
survive and feel well with just one
kidney because each of them has 1.5
million working units called nephrons
you really only need 300,000 nephrons
there is a huge hole between your hip
bones it's a circular space between two
cavities your skin shade depends on the
amount of melanin its cells are
producing your taste buds are not okay
for a while after you brush your teeth
the chemicals in your toothpaste boost
your ability to taste bitter things but
turn down the sweetness there are many
different sneezing styles you inherited
yours from your parents plus the way you
sneeze in public is different from the
way you sneeze when no one can hear you
there are 14 basic human nose shapes
among the most popular our celestial
fleshy bumpy greek-roman and Hawk noses
you can find all of them in the works of
art from different periods if you sit
hunched up and look down you're more
likely to recall bad memories sit
straight and look up and good memories
will come to your mind mucus helps
important issues to stay properly moist
and keeps you healthy
it catches virus and route to your
Airways and flushes out dirt your liver
is the only essential internal organ
that has a superpower of fully
regenerating itself when someone donates
more than a half of it the liver grows
back to the original size in about two
weeks a human mouth is home to over 700
different types of bacteria there is
more of them in there than there are
people on the entire planet
a good reason to brush your teeth
your skin is your largest organ making
up about 15% of your total weight even
when you're doing nothing your heart is
working twice as hard as leg muscles of
a sprinter in action